# SMS_Spam_Detector
The goal of this project is to detect if a particular SMS text can be
classified as either spam or ham using embedding techniques and text
classification models. The best results were achieved by implementing
the Random Forest model with the word2vec word embedding technique
with an accuracy of 97.3%, without overfitting the data.
1 Introduction
The word spam generally means some unwanted text sent or received through social media
sites. It is generated by spammers to divert the attention of the users of social media for the
purpose of marketing and spreading malware etc. The SMS spam messages are sent in bulk
to various users, with the intention of tricking them into clicking on fake advertisements and
spreading malware on their devices. The spam messages provide a good source of income for
the spammers and, hence, they continue to spread them rapidly. To combat spam in SMS
texts, a lot of techniques have been involved, but the spam content continues to increase.
These spam messages cause financial loss to consumers. Hence, an efficient spam detection
is important to help people classify whether it is a spam message or not.
2 Method
The collected dataset is cleaned and analysed to gain some interesting insights into the
patterns in the data. The models are then trained using the cleaned data, as described in
the following sections:
2.1 Dataset and Data Pre-processing
The dataset is taken from the UCI Machine Learning repository. It contains 5572 real and
non-encoded messages, tagged accordingly being ham (legitimate) or spam, which includes
text and numbers in different lengths of sentences. The dataset is imbalanced
Attribute Information:
1. label: If the message is ham (legitimate) or spam
2. message: The actual message text
